Checklist for API description reviews (#18)
camaraproject/Marketing: documentation/SupportingDocuments/Checklist_for_API_description_review.md

# Checklist for API description reviews

| **Section** | **Checkpoints** |
|---|---|
| API Description | <ul><li>API targets and functionality is described complete and understandable</li><li>Visual illustrating API functionality and integration is included</li></ul> |
| Use Cases | <ul><li>Use cases are described understandable</li><li>Use case name in bold, rest in normal font</li></ul> |
| Benefits | <ul><li>Benefits are described understandable</li><li>Benefit name in bold, rest in normal font</li></ul> |

> | API Portfolio: | <ul><li>Prefix correct (see column section)</li><li>Correct portfolio is shown</li></ul> |

Reviewer: In this case, would it be good to include the columns? 
```suggestion
| API Portfolio: | <ul><li>Prefix correct (Authentication and fraud prevention, Location-based services, Communication services, Quality of communication, Device information, IT services, Payment and charging, and Service management)</li><li>Correct portfolio is shown</li></ul> |
```

Author: The prefix should be the one which is already in the first column of the checklist table. So nothing needed to add.

Author: @hdamker The column "section" is the first column of this checklist table. The heading of this first column is "section" :-)

Reviewer 2: Ah, ok ... expected it in the template. In this case on checkpoint that the template is correctly used might have an option instead repeating this point in every row of the table ("see column section" is not necessarily pointing to the right field in the column ...).

> | SubProject Wiki: | <ul><li>Prefix correct (see column section)</li><li>Link is correct and named with SubProject or Independent Sandbox</li><li>"(incl. how to meet the team)" is added</li></ul> |

Reviewer 2: There are many ways to write "Sub Project" within CAMARA, but the official one from the ProjectStructureAndRoles is "Sub Project". A CamelCase word does not exist in normal language.

```suggestion
| Sub Project Wiki: | <ul><li>Prefix correct (see column section)</li><li>Link is correct and named with Sub Project or Independent Sandbox</li><li>"(incl. how to meet the team)" is added</li></ul> |
```

BTW: in case of an Independent Sandbox which is not part of a Group (like in case of SessionInsights which is already grouped under Connectivity Insights), Sub Project Wiki and API Wiki are the same ... is this intended?

> | API Wiki: | <ul><li>Prefix correct (see column section)</li><li>Link is correct and named with API</li></ul> |

Reviewer 2: And "named with API" is ambiguous ... the wiki page is named after the repository the API is hosted in, there is not necessarily a wiki page with the name of the API.

> | API Repository: | <ul><li>Prefix correct (see column section)</li><li>Link is correct and named with API</li></ul> |

Reviewer 2: Same here: repositories are not necessarily named like the API.

Author: We then only can reference "API repo"

| API Repository Status: | <ul><li>Prefix correct (see column section)</li><li>Status is correct (Sandbox, Incubating, Graduated)</li></ul> |

> | API Status: | <ul><li>Prefix correct (see column section)</li><li>Status is correct (Upcoming, In progress, Release candidate, Initial, Stable)</li></ul> |

Reviewer: NIT: In this case it would be good to add a small definition of each state? or a link to where this information is available.

Reviewer 2: Release candidate, Initial and Stable are defined in Release Management, e.g. by the criteria in the API Readiness Checklist.

The differentiation between "upcoming" and "in progress" is for me not clear. We said that the API name has already been agreed before we bring an API on the website ... so it is maybe always "in progress"?

Author: @hdamker Upcoming is your status E2. We wanted to differentiate between name is decided and work is started

> | API Version(s) and Release Date(s): | <ul><li>Prefix correct (see column section)</li><li>Relevant API versions are listed</li><li>Format is "v0.0.0 (dd.mm.yyyy), Spring25 meta-release"</li><li>Links are correct</li></ul> |

Reviewer: As for “Relevant API versions are listed” I see it too open to interpretation, could we put public version?
```suggestion
| API Version(s) and Release Date(s): | <ul><li>Prefix correct (see column section)</li><li>Public release API versions are listed</li><li>Format is "v0.0.0 (dd.mm.yyyy), Spring25 meta-release"</li><li>Links are correct</li></ul> |
```

Reviewer 2: I'm also in favor for public releases - within a meta-release cycle always the latest public (potentially patch) release. How many meta-releases back we have to discuss in general (how long will past releases maintained in CAMARA).

Reviewer 2: BTW: a release candidate is a pre-release, not a public release. As this status is only relevant before the first public release, I would argue that people interested in the release candidate can go themselves to the repository.

> | API Version(s) and Release Date(s): | <ul><li>Prefix correct (see column section)</li><li>Public release API versions are listed</li><li>Format is "v0.0.0 (dd.mm.yyyy), Spring25 meta-release"</li><li>Links are correct</li></ul> |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| API Version(s) and Release Date(s): | <ul><li>Prefix correct (see column section)</li><li>Public release API versions are listed</li><li>Format is "vx.y.z (dd.mm.yyyy), Spring25 meta-release"</li><li>Links are correct</li></ul> |
```

Reviewer 2: "Links are correct" ... is there a definition where the link should go to? Just to the release of the API Repository (which contains the release description and with that the context and the links to the API definition) (my preferred option) or directly to the YAML (in this case extra care to be taken that it is going to the tagged version of the release).
